REVIEW 1 (reviews closed) - ADD: Documentation section to our packaging guide (#14)
pyOpenSci/python-package-guide: documentation/readme-file-best-practices.md

# README File Guidelines and Resources

The **README.md** file is often the first thing that someone sees before they
install your package. 

The README.md file is the landing page of:

> * Your file on package manager landing pages like PyPI and Anaconda

Reviewer: Is:

`* Your file on package manager landing pages like PyPI and Anaconda`

Should be:

`* Your package landing page on a package manager services like PyPI and Anaconda`

Author: fixed!

* Your package's GitHub repository

It is also used to measure:

> * community health by github

Reviewer 2: Add a link here to GitHub docs on community health? I have no idea what this means (except I know you just taught yourself a bunch about it) so I'm guessing a person totally new to this won't take much from it either

> * community health by github

Author: fixeD

> * community health by github

Author: because of the other changes i am not going to merge this as it now conflicts! but did make the fix locally :) thanks!

> * and included in package health landing pages such as snyk 

Reviewer: Maybe URL to snyk? so it will look like:

`* and included in package health landing pages such as [snyk](https://snyk.io/advisor/python)`

Reviewer 2: :+1: yes a link to snyk would be good too

Reviewer 2: Revise so that bullet points are consistent?

```
The README is also often used as part of a measure of package and community health. For example:
* [GitHub community health](link)
* [Snyk package health](link)
```

Or possibly just write as a single sentence? I'm not sure how bullet points help a reader here since they seem to arbitrarily break up the train of thought

Author: fixed!

```{figure} ../images/pandera-python-package-readme-github.png
---
name: directive-fig
width: 80%
---

> Your GitHub repository landing page highlights the README.md file. Here you can see the README.md file for [Pandera](https://github.com/unionai-oss/pandera), a pyOpenSci vetted package. *(screen shot taken Nov 23 2022)*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your GitHub repository landing page highlights the README.md file. Here you can see the README.md file for the pyOpenSci package [Pandera](https://github.com/unionai-oss/pandera). *(screen shot taken Nov 23 2022)*
```
Just say say "pyOpenSci package" or "a package that has gone through pyOpenSci review"?
"a pyOpenSci vetted package" sounds a bit off to me. We did more than vet it, I think

```

Thus, it is important that you spend some time up front creating a high quality 
**README.md** file for your Python package.

Your README.md file should be located in the root of your GitHub repository. 

````{note}
An editor or the editor in chief will ask you to revise your README file
before a review begins if it does not meet the criteria specified below. 

Please go through this list before submitting your package to pyOpenSci

```
### pyOpenSci README checklist 

Your README file should have the following information: 
- [ ] The name of the package
- [ ] Badges for the packages current published version, documentation and test suite build. (OPTIONAL: test coverage) 
- [ ] Easy-to-understand explanation (2-4 sentences) of what your tool does
- [ ] Context for how the tool fits into the broader ecosystem 

> - [ ] If it's your package is a wrapper, link to the package that it is wrapping and any associated documentation. (If you do'nt know what a wrapper is - this probably doesn't apply to you!)

Reviewer: A typo:

`- [ ] If it's your package is a wrapper, link to the package that it is wrapping and any associated documentation. (If you don't know what a wrapper is - this probably doesn't apply to you!)`

Author: fixed!

> - [ ] If it's your package is a wrapper, link to the package that it is wrapping and any associated documentation. (If you do'nt know what a wrapper is - this probably doesn't apply to you!)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] If your package is a [wrapper](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wrapper_library) (that provides an interface to another library), link to the library that it wraps and any associated documentation.
```
suggest briefly defining wrapper instead of saying "thing you don't know about doesn't apply to you"

Reviewer 2: also suggest "library" over "package" since wrappers are likely to not be a Python package

Author: so weird. i had edits on this section from other people too. i've merged them in and no longer use the word wrapper.

- [ ] A simple quickstart code example that a user can follow to provide a demonstration of what the package can do for them 

> - [ ] Links to your packages documentation / website.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Links to your package's documentation / website.
```

Author: fixed!

- [ ] A few descriptive links to any tutorials you've created for your pacakge.
```
````

## What your README.md file should contain

Your **README.md** file should contain the following things (listed from top to bottom):

### ✔️ Your package's name
Ideally your GitHub repository's name is also the name of your package. The more 
self explanatory that name is, the better. 

> ###  ✔️ Badges for current package version, continuous integration and test coverage

Reviewer: Could be a badge with a license too (?)

Author: huh good point. i haven't seen license badges used too widely given there is a file in the repo called LICENSE. id say if someone really wants that it could be optional. I think the tests, CI docs building etc and python versions are probably more important.

```{tip}
Once you package is accepted to pyOpenSci, we will provide you with 
a badge to add to your repository that shows that it has been reviewed. 
[![pyOpenSci](https://tinyurl.com/y22nb8up)](https://github.com/pyOpenSci/software-review/issues/12)

```

```{caution}
Beware of the overuse of badges! There is such a thing as too much of a good thing (which can overload a potential user!).
```

### ✔️ A short, easy-to-understand description of what your package does 

At the top of your README file you should have a short, easy-to-understand, 1-3 
sentence description of what your package does. This section should clearly 
state your goals for the package. The language in this description should use 
less technical terms so that a variety of users with varying scientific (and 
development) backgrounds can understand it. 

In this description, it's useful to let users know how your package fits within
the broader scientific Python package ecosystem. If there are other similar packages 
or complementary package mentions them here in 1-2 sentences. 

```{tip}

> Consider writing for a 12th grade reading level which is an ideal level for more scientific content that serves a broad user base. The goal of this description to maximize accessibility of your **README** file.

Reviewer 2: :+1: agreed that "12th grade" sounded a bit specific when I read it although I know what you mean

> Consider writing for a 12th grade reading level which is an ideal level for more scientific content that serves a broad user base. The goal of this description to maximize accessibility of your **README** file.

Reviewer 3: I made the same comment above. Even high school might be too specific for certain countries. I would go with a child's age, e. g. 14 years old (I am not sure which age people enter high school in the US 😆).

> Consider writing for a 12th grade reading level which is an ideal level for more scientific content that serves a broad user base. The goal of this description to maximize accessibility of your **README** file.

Author: 😆 y'all rock. will change this. appreciate the feedback.

```

### ✔️ Installation instructions

Include instructions for installing your package. If you have published 
the package on both PyPI and Conda be sure to include instructions for both. 

### ✔️ Document any addition setup required

Add any additional setup required such as authentication tokens,  to 
get started using your package. If setup is complex, consider linking to a 
installation page in your online documentation here rather than over complicating
your README file. 

### ✔️ Brief demonstration of how to use the package

> This description ideally includes a quick start vignette that provides a code sample demonstrating use of our package. 

Reviewer 4: for consistency

```suggestion
This description ideally includes a quick start vignette that provides a code sample demonstrating use of your package. 
```

> This description ideally includes a quick start vignette that provides a code sample demonstrating use of our package. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This description ideally includes a brief code snippet demonstrating use of your package. 
```

Author: fixed!

> This description ideally includes a quick start vignette that provides a code sample demonstrating use of our package. 

Reviewer 3: A quick start guide?

Author: definitely! look at my typos everywhere. 🙈

### ✔️ Descriptive links to package documentation, tutorials or vignettes.

> Include descriptive links to to:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Include descriptive links to:
```

* The package's documentation page. 
* Tutorials or vignettes that demonstrate application of your package. 

```{tip}
### TOO MUCH OF A GOOD thing

Try to avoid including several tutorials in the readme file itself. This too will overwhelm the user with information. 

> A short quick-start vignette that shows a user how to use your package is plenty for the README file. All other tutorials and documentation should be presented as descriptive links. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A short quick-start guide that shows someone how to use your package is plenty for the README file. All other tutorials and documentation should be presented as descriptive links. 
```
suggest revising to avoid repeating "user", "use"

Author: fixed!

```

> ### ✔️ A Community Section with Links to Contributing Guide, Code of Conduct 

Reviewer: a link to the license?

Author: what do you think about that going in the section related to citation? license and citation?

Author: ok i added it here. it does make sense. thank you for being so on top of license items!!!

In your readme file direct users to more information on:
* contributing to your package 
* development setup for more advanced technical contributors 

> * your code of conduct. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* your code of conduct
```
suggest either removing period for consistency with other bullet points or adding periods to all of them
https://www.instructionalsolutions.com/blog/bulleted-list-punctuation

Reviewer 3: I have been adding bullet points everywhere haha, I am not sure what is the overall consensus here 😅

Author: i'm a fan of bullets - BUT maybe not as many as ropensci uses in their guides (which are all bullets). i think breaking up text allows someone to more easily skim.

Author: locally none have periods now. github really messed up some of the comments on the same lines of text here... bare with me...
